### HEALTH EQUITY ASSESSMENT TOOLKIT (HEAT), BUILT-IN DATABASE EDITION, VERSION 2.0
<hr>

HEAT was developed to facilitate the assessment of within-country health 
inequalities across countries. Inequalities can be assessed using disaggregated 
data and summary measures, that are presented in customized tables and graphs. 
Results can be exported and saved in different formats. 


#### COPYRIGHT
<hr>

© Copyright World Health Organization, 2016-2017. 


#### SUGGESTED CITATION
<hr>

Health Equity Assessment Toolkit (HEAT): Software for exploring and comparing 
health inequalities in countries. Built-in database edition. Version 2.0. 
Geneva, World Health Organization, 2017. 


#### DISCLAIMER 
<hr>

Your use of these materials is subject to the Terms of Use and Software Licence
agreement – see below – and by using these materials you affirm that you have 
read, and will comply with, the terms of those documents.


#### TERMS OF USE AND SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
<hr>

Please read these Terms of Use and Software License Agreement (the “Agreement”) 
carefully before installing the Health Equity Assessment Toolkit (the 
“Toolkit”).

By installing and/or using the Toolkit, you (the “Licensee”) enter into an 
agreement with the World Health Organization (“WHO”) and you accept all terms, 
conditions, and requirements of the Agreement. 

1\. Components and Types of the Toolkit

1.1. The Toolkit contains software developed by WHO (the “Software”). WHO has, 
or will, make two editions of the Toolkit available: 

  (i) a built-in database edition which includes WHO data, originating from the 
WHO Health Equity Monitor database, for use with the Software (the “Data”), and 
which does not allow you to upload your own data into the Software (the “Closed 
Toolkit”); and 

  (ii) an upload database edition which enables you to upload your own data 
into the toolkit, does not include the Data, and does not include any reference 
to WHO, by name, logo, or otherwise (the “Open Toolkit”).

This Agreement governs your use of whichever edition(s) of the Toolkit you have 
downloaded and/or used through an online platform, including both the Software 
and, if applicable, the Data. References to the “Toolkit” in the remainder of 
this Agreement apply to the Closed and/or Open editions, as applicable in your 
particular case, including, as applicable the Software and the Data. 

2\. Third-party Software

2.1. Third-party software needed to use the Toolkit. In order to run the 
Software, you will need the “R” statistical software and a web browser. In the 
stand-alone package of the Toolkit, WHO has provided a portable version of “R”, 
and the portable edition of the web browser Mozilla Firefox. These do not 
require any installation. 

2.2. WHO disclaimers for third-party software. WHO makes no warranties 
whatsoever, and specifically disclaims any and all warranties, express or 
implied, that either “R” or Firefox are free of defects, virus free, able to 
operate on an uninterrupted basis, merchantable, fit for a particular purpose, 
accurate, non-infringing or appropriate for your technical system. 

2.3. Third-party software user license(s) and use.  To the extent you are 
required to enter into a user license in order to use “R” and/or Firefox, WHO 
is not a party to any such license, and WHO therefore disclaims all liability, 
responsibility, and/or involvement with any such license. WHO shall not be held 
liable or responsible for either any breach of any of the terms and conditions 
of either the “R” or Firefox user licenses by you, or any damages arising from 
your use of either “R” or Firefox. 

2.4. No WHO endorsement of third-party software.  The use of the “R” and 
Firefox software does not imply that “R” or Firefox products are endorsed or 
recommended by WHO in preference to others of a similar nature. 

3\. License and Terms of Use for the Software

3.1. Copyright and license. The Software is copyright (©) World Health 
Organization, 2016-2017, and is distributed under the terms of the GNU General 
Public License (GPL), version 2 or later. As stated in the source code for the 
Software, the Software incorporates or makes reference to other open source 
software, issued under multiple license types (including the “Apache License 
version 2”, “GPL version 2”, the “GPL version 2 or later”, the “GPL version 3”, 
and the “MIT license”), and WHO issues the Software under GPL “version 2 or 
later” in part to comply with the terms of those software. WHO disclaims any 
responsibility or liability with respect to the use or completeness of such 
license.

4\. Copyright and Terms of Use for the Data 

4.1. Copyright of Data. The Data originates from the WHO Health Equity Monitor 
database, and is © WHO. For the avoidance of any doubt, WHO hereby asserts its 
copyright in the Data, and reserves all rights in the Data. 

4.2. Data not part of Software or Published under GPL. Unlike the Software, WHO 
is not publishing the Data under the GNU GPL. The Data is not based on “R”, is 
an independent and separate work from the Software, and is not distributed as 
“part of a whole” with the Software, as those terms and concepts are used in 
the GPL.

5\. Retained Rights and Limitations on Use

5.1. Retained Rights. Except as otherwise indicated herein, WHO owns and shall 
retain all right, title and interest in and to the Toolkit, including all 
intellectual property rights embodied therein, including (i) all of the service 
marks, trademarks, trade names or any other designations associated with the 
Toolkit; and (ii) all copyrights, patent rights, trade secret rights, and other 
proprietary rights relating to the Toolkit. Nothing contained in this License 
shall be deemed to convey to the Licensee any title or ownership in the Toolkit 
or the related documentation. 

5.2. Technical limitations of Use. You shall not remove any WHO identification 
or notices of any proprietary, patent or copyright restrictions from the 
Toolkit, or any support material such as the related documentation. 

5.3. Limitations on use of Data. In no event shall you use the Data: 

  (i) In any manner which infringes the rights of any person or entity, 
including the rights of WHO or any attributed owner(s) of the Data; 

  (ii) In, or in association with, any product marketing, promotional, or 
commercial activities, including, without limitation, in, or in association 
with, advertisements, product brochures, company-sponsored web sites, annual 
reports, or other non-educational publications or distributions; 

  (iii) In, or in connection with, the promotion of a commercial enterprise 
and/or its product(s) or service(s), and/or in any way that suggests that WHO 
endorses any specific company or products;

  (iv) In any political activities; 

  (v) In any way which is contrary to the policies and principles of WHO 
and/or which might otherwise jeopardize the name or reputation of WHO, its 
special programmes, and/or its research projects or the attributed owner(s) of 
the Data; 

  (vi) In any manner which is, or could be considered to be, illegal; or 

  (vii) In any manner which is in violation of this Agreement.

6\. Acknowledgment and Use of WHO Name and Emblem

6.1. The Open Toolkit (upload database edition). For the Open Toolkit, as WHO 
does not provide any content for that edition, you shall not state or imply 
that results from the Open Toolkit are WHO’s products, opinion, or statements. 
Further, you shall not (i) in connection with your use of the Open Toolkit, 
state or imply that WHO endorses or is affiliated with you or your use of the 
Open  Toolkit, the Software, or the Data, or that WHO endorses any entity, 
organization, company, or product, or (ii) use the name or emblem of WHO in any 
way. All requests to use the WHO name and/or emblem require advance written 
approval of WHO.

6.2. The Closed Toolkit (built-in database edition). For the Closed Toolkit, 
any mention of the Toolkit, use of outputs from the Toolkit, and/or use of the 
Data, in publications (including reports, briefings, and journal articles) must 
include the following citation of the source: 

  Health Equity Assessment Toolkit (HEAT): Software for exploring and comparing 
  health inequalities in countries. Built-in database edition. Version 2.0. 
  Geneva, World Health Organization, 2017.

Other than as provided above, you shall not (i) in connection with your use of 
the Closed Toolkit, state or imply that WHO endorses or is affiliated with you 
or your use of the Closed Toolkit, the Software, or the Data, or that WHO 
endorses any entity, organization, company, or product, or (ii) use the name or 
emblem of WHO in any way. All requests to use the WHO name and/or emblem 
require advance written approval of WHO.

7\. Disclaimers by WHO 

7.1. No WHO warranties.  WHO makes no warranty with respect to the Toolkit, and 
disclaims all statutory or implied warranties, expressed or implied, as to the 
accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or 
process related to the Toolkit, including, without limitation, to any warranty 
of design or fitness for a particular purpose, even if WHO has been informed of 
such purpose. WHO does not represent that the use of the Toolkit would not 
infringe third parties' proprietary rights.  WHO provides the toolkit “as is”, 
and does not represent that the Toolkit is operational, free of defects, virus 
free, able to operate on an uninterrupted basis, or appropriate for your 
technical system. 

7.2. Country or area designations. The designations employed and the 
presentation of the material in the Observatory do not imply the expression of 
any opinion whatsoever on the part of WHO concerning the legal status of any 
country, territory, city or area, or of its authorities, or concerning the 
delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

7.3. Mentions of companies or products. Any mention of specific companies or of 
certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or 
recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a 
similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names 
of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.

8\. Limitation of WHO’s Liability 

8.1. WHO shall not be liable for any loss or damage arising directly or 
indirectly in connection with, or resulting from, your use of the Toolkit.

8.2. WHO further expressly excludes liability for any indirect, special, 
incidental or consequential damages which may arise in respect of the Toolkit 
and its use, and the results thereof, including, without limitation, any use of 
the Data. 

9\. Your Indemnification of WHO 

9.1. You shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend at your own expense WHO, 
its officers, agents, and employees from and against any claims, demands, 
causes of action, and liability of any nature or kind resulting from or 
relating to your use of the Toolkit.

10\. Term and Termination of this Agreement 

10.1. This Agreement shall remain in effect so long as you hold any copy of the 
Toolkit on any of your computer systems or storage media. This Agreement, 
including the rights granted under it, shall terminate automatically upon any 
breach by you of any of its terms. Further, WHO may terminate this Agreement, 
including the rights granted under it, at any time, with immediate effect, for 
any reason, by written notice to you.  This Agreement is the entire agreement 
between you and WHO with respect to its subject matter.  This Agreement may 
only be amended by mutual written agreement of you and WHO. 

10.2. Upon termination of this License for any reason whatsoever, you shall 
immediately cease all use of the Toolkit and destroy and/or remove all copies 
of the Toolkit from your computer systems and storage media.

11\. General Provisions 

11.1. You may not assign this Agreement without the prior written agreement of 
WHO (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld).

11.2. This Agreement may not be supplemented, modified, amended, released or 
discharged, unless approved in writing by WHO. WHO reserves the right to make 
changes and updates to this Agreement without prior notification. Such changes 
and updates shall be applied as of the date of their issuance. Any waiver by 
WHO of any default or breach hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of any 
provision of this Agreement or of any subsequent default or breach of the same 
or a different kind.

11.3. If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, it is to 
that extent to be deemed omitted. The remainder of the Agreement shall be valid 
and enforceable to the maximum extent possible. 

11.4. Paragraph headings in this Agreement are for reference only. 

11.5. Any matter relating to the interpretation or application of this 
Agreement which is not covered by its terms shall be resolved by reference to 
Swiss law. Any dispute relating to the interpretation or application of this 
Agreement shall, unless amicably settled, be subject to conciliation. In the 
event of failure of the latter, the dispute shall be settled by arbitration. 
The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the modalities to be 
agreed upon by the parties or, in the absence of agreement, in accordance with 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules. The parties shall accept the arbitral award as 
final.

12\. Privileges and Immunities of WHO

12.1. Nothing contained herein or in any license or terms of use related to the 
subject matter herein (including, without limitation, the GNU General Public 
License discussed in paragraph 3.1 above) shall be construed as a waiver of any 
of the privileges and immunities enjoyed by the World Health Organization under 
national or international law, and/or as submitting the World Health 
Organization to any national court jurisdiction.

